PREVIOUSLY
ON "THE MENTALIST"...
JANE HAS WORKED OUT THAT
RED JOHN IS ONE OF SEVEN MEN.
But Red John also knows
the seven names on Jane's list.
I'M GONNA GIVE YOU
THE SEVEN NAMES,
AND I NEED YOU TO PUT
A G.P.S. BUG
ON EACH OF THEIR CELL PHONES.
THE WIRES ARE UP.ALL OF THEM?
YEP. G.P.S. AND AUDIO.
OKAY.
WE WATCH THEM LIKE HAWKS.
WE LOG EVERYWHERE THEY GO
24/7.WILL DO.
[woman] We have an anonymous tip
directed to your unit.
A person or persons in distress
at 5570 West Huron.
BRETT PARTRIDGE IS THERE.[beeps]
[gasps and whispers]
OH, MY GOD.
PARTRIDGE?
TIGER...
T... TIGER.
[cell phone rings]
LISBON, FINALLY.
Sorry, Patrick.
Teresa can't come
to the phone right now.
[dripping]
[indistinct conversations]
SIR?
SIR? ARE YOU SURE I CAN'T
CALL YOU A CAB, OR...
NO. YOU'RE GRACIOUS
AND KIND.
DOMO ARIGATO.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
GOOD NIGHT.
[exhales]
[closes door]
[keys turns in ignition,
engine starts]
[tires screech]
[siren wails]
[exhales][man, amplified voice]
PULL THE CAR OVER TO THE RIGHT.
[brakes squeal]
OH, NO, NO, NO!
SIR, ARE YOU AWARE YOU CROSSED
A DOUBLE YELLOW LINE BACK THERE?
PLEASE, OFFICER,
THIS IS UNNECESSARY.
YOU SHOULD GO.
HAVE YOU BEEN DRINKING?
NO! NOT AT ALL.
[sighs heavily]
SIR, I'M GONNA NEED YOU
TO STEP OUT OF THE VEHICLE.
OFFICER, I'M REALLY SORRY
ABOUT THIS.
SIR--
HEY, HEY, DON'T--
[tires peal]
WHAT? IT EXPLODED?
[police radio chatter]
WELL, HOW LONG WILL IT TAKE
TO GET THAT UNDER CONTROL?
ALL RIGHT, WELL, WHEN THE SMOKE
CLEARS, LET ME KNOW,
AND I'LL GET A TEAM OUT.
SHERIDAN, WHAT HAPPENED HERE?
WE GOT A CALL
ABOUT AN HOUR AGO
FROM YOUR, UH, AGENT LISBON.
CALLED FOR IMMEDIATE ASSISTANCE
FROM THIS ADDRESS.
UNIFORMS RESPONDED, FOUND
ONE MALE D.O.A. AND LISBON DOWN.
HOW IS SHE?DON'T KNOW.
THE E.M.T.s ARE WITH HER.
SHE I.D. THE BODY?YEAH, WE GOT A...
BRETT PARTRIDGE.
WORKED FORENSICS.
YOU KNOW HIM?
UH, SLIGHTLY.
JANE, HOW IS SHE?
I DON'T KNOW.
YOU GOT ANY WATER ON YOU?
WHAT?I NEED SOME WATER!
ANYBODY, YOU GOT ANY WATER?
BOTTLE OF WATER! ANYBODY!OVER HERE!
THANK YOU.
WAIT, WAIT, WAIT.
♪♪♪
--Captions by VITAC
[elevator bell dings]OH, HEY, BOSS.
FEELING BETTER?
MUCH. THANKS.
GOOD MORNING.
SIR?
OH. LISBON.
I'LL BE WITH YOU
IN A MINUTE.
[breathing unevenly]
[monitor beeping steadily]
[gasping]
[monitor beeping faster]
[voice echoes] LISBON...
[normal voice]
GIVE ME A HAND, WOULD YOU?
TERESA?
[monitor beeping faster]
SORRY ABOUT THIS.[gasps]
[gasps][monitor beeping rapidly]
EVERYTHING'S OKAY.[exhales]
IT'S ALL RIGHT.
YOU'RE SAFE.
WHAT HAPPENED?
YOU DON'T REMEMBER
ANYTHING?
[exhales] ASIDE FROM
PARTRIDGE, NO. WHY?
WH-WHAT'D HE DO?
NOTHING.
DOCTOR SAYS YOU'RE
COMPLETELY UNHARMED,
APART FROM A TASER BURN.
WHAT TIME IS IT?
MORNING, SOMETIME.
PARTRIDGE IS DEAD.
MM-HMM.
RED JOHN KILLED HIM
AND DID NOTHING TO ME. WHY?
HE DIDN'T DO NOTHING.
HE TOOK PARTRIDGE'S BLOOD...
PUT IT ON YOUR FACE,
MADE HIS MARK.
OKAY.
[breathes deeply]
WH-WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
HE WAS JUST BEING PLAYFUL.
RAN OUT OF TIME.
MAYBE SOMETHING SPOOKED HIM
AND HE COULDN'T GO THROUGH
HIS USUAL ROUTINE.
YOU WERE RIGHT
ABOUT THE PHONE TRACES.HMM.
RED JOHN HOOKED ME
LIKE A FISH.
WELL, AT LEAST
HE THREW YOU BACK.
I'LL HAVE VAN PELT
PULL THEM DOWN.
THEY'RE COMPLETELY ILLEGAL,
ASIDE FROM ANYTHING ELSE.
THERE IS THAT.
WAIT. WELL...
BEFORE PARTRIDGE DIED,
HE LOOKED AT ME
AND HE SAID, "TIGER, TIGER,"
AS IN THE POEM,
WHICH IS WHAT RED JOHN
SAID TO YOU, RIGHT?
THAT'S INTERESTING.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
I DON'T KNOW.
[knock on door]HELLO?
UH, MR. LEE? CARMEN LEE?
UH, SORRY.
WRONG ROOM, I GUESS.
SORRY.
[sighs]
RED JOHN HAS BEEN AHEAD OF US
THIS ENTIRE TIME.
I KNOW YOU SAY HE'S NOT PSYCHIC,
BUT I'M NOT SURE.
HMM?
YOU SAID YOURSELF, WHEN RED JOHN
KILLED EILEEN TURNER,
IT WAS LIKE HE REACHED
INSIDE YOUR HEAD
AND KILLED A HAPPY MEMORY.
HOW COULD HE DO THAT
IF HE'S NOT PSYCHIC?
THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
[indistinct conversations]
Hi. You've reached
the voicemail
of Dr. Sophie Miller.
If this is a true
psychiatric emergency,
please call 9-1-1 and seek
immediate assistance.
Otherwise, leave a message,
and I'll get back to you
as quickly as I can.
Thanks. [beep]
SOPHIE?
UH, PATRICK JANE.
IT'S BEEN A WHILE.
UH...
GOOD TO HEAR YOUR VOICE.
I HAVE SOMETHING I NEED
TO ASK YOU ABOUT.
UH, COULD YOU GIVE ME
A CALL BACK
WHEN YOU HAVE A MOMENT?
THANK YOU.
HOPE YOU'RE WELL.
[snaps phone shut]
HOW'S THE BOSS?AWAKE AND CRANKY.
ARE THEY RELEASING HER
TODAY?YES, I GUESS.
UH-OH. LOOK OUT.
SO WHO'S IN CHARGE
UNTIL LISBON GETS BACK?I AM, SIR.
WELL, NO REST FOR THE WICKED,
I'M AFRAID.
A CAR EXPLODED LAST NIGHT
ON CHURCHILL ROAD.
THERE'S ONE VICTIM. SAC P.D.'s
ALREADY ON THE SCENE.
WE'LL GET ON IT.YEAH, I'LL, UH, GO WITH HIM.
I'LL CHECK WITH THE P.D.
SEE WHAT THEY DUG UP.
YOU, JANE?
OH, I'M, UH, BUSY.
NO DOUBT.
WELL, IT'S GOOD NEWS
ABOUT LISBON, HUH?
EXTRAORDINARILY LUCKY,
RED JOHN SPARING HER.
WHAT WAS SHE DOING THERE,
BY THE WAY?WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
WELL, WHEN THE CALL CAME IN
ABOUT THE HOUSE,
THERE WAS NO MENTION
OF PARTRIDGE OR RED JOHN.
SO... WHY DID LISBON
GO THERE?
DON'T KNOW.
FOLLOWING A HUNCH, I GUESS.
[chuckles] JANE, I-I UNDERSTAND
YOUR APPETITE FOR SECRECY.
I'VE EVEN WILLING
TO TOLERATE IT...
WITHIN LIMITS.
BUT I'M TELLING YOU AGAIN.
IF YOU HAVE RED JOHN
IN YOUR SIGHTS,
I WILL BE THERE.
CLEAR?
COMPLETELY.
I THINK IT'S BERTRAM.
WE KNOW RED JOHN
HAS MAJOR JUICE.
HE HAS TO, GIVEN WHAT
HE'S PULLED OFF.
BERTRAM'S GOT MORE JUICE THAN
ANYONE ON JANE'S LIST.
NO, BRET STILES RUNS
A WORLDWIDE CULT
WITH THOUSANDS OF FOLLOWERS
AND BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
IN ASSETS.
OKAY, OTHER THAN STILES.
BUT BERTRAM'S ON THE INSIDE.
HE CAN KEEP AN EYE
ON THE INVESTIGATION,
HIDE HIS TRACKS.
[breathes deeply]
TELL ME I'M WRONG.
GO AHEAD. BRING IT ON.
I DON'T THINK YOU'RE WRONG.
YEAH?
IT COULD DEFINITELY
BE BERTRAM.
THERE'S SOMETHING CREEPY
ABOUT HIM.
THERE IS SOMETHING CREEPY
ABOUT HIM, ISN'T THERE?
SO YOU'RE, UH,
AGREEING WITH ME?
I GUESS.
ALL RIGHT.
[hushed voice] WHA!
THE CROWD GOES WILD
BECAUSE CHO AGREES WITH ME!
WHA!
I PULLED THE GUY OVER
A LITTLE BEFORE MIDNIGHT.
TYPICAL D.U.I.
DRIVER'S GIVING ME
SOME LIP.
THEN HE HITS THE GAS,
AND KABOOM.
YOU RUN THE PLATES?
YEAH. GUY'S NAME
WAS TITUS STONE.
I SENT THE I.D.
TO YOUR OFFICE,
BUT CORONER ALREADY
TOOK HIS BODY.
BUT YOU'RE NOT MISSING
ANYTHING.
GUY WAS PRETTY CRISPY.
HEY, CHO, LOOK AT THIS.
HOLE IN THE ROOF
SAYS BOMB IN THE CAR.
THE EDGES OF THE HOLE
ARE BENT INWARD.
SO THE BOMB WAS ON THE OUTSIDE
ON TOP OF THE CAR.
YEAH, BUT HOW? IT DOESN'T LOOK
LIKE THERE WAS A ROOF RACK.
HOW'S IT STAY IN PLACE?DID YOU SEE IT EXPLODE?
NO, BUT MY DASHBOARD CAMERA
CAUGHT IT.
YOU WANT TO SEE THIS.
HERE WE GO.
SEE THAT THING RIGHT THERE?
WHAT THE HELL IS THAT?
RUN THAT AGAIN.OKAY.
[Cho] THERE'S A LIGHT MOVING
PARALLEL TO THE GROUND
RIGHT BEHIND THE CAR.
IS THAT SOMETHING
FLYING THERE?
LOOKS LIKE IT HITS THE CAR
RIGHT BEFORE IT EXPLODES.
COULD IT BE SOME KIND
OF MISSILE?
I DOUBT IT.
YOU KNOW, THAT COULD BE
A DRONE.
A DRONE?
[scoffs]
WOW, THAT'S CRAZY.
RUN IT AGAIN.
SURE.[cell phone rings]
EXCUSE ME.
HEY, GRACE.
HEY, GOOD-LOOKIN'.
SO I DIDN'T WANT TO WAKE YOU
WHEN I LEFT, BUT, UH,
THAT WAS PRETTY SPECTACULAR
LAST NIGHT.
YEAH, IT WAS.
HEY, I'M FREE TONIGHT.
SOUNDS GOOD.
SO I WAS THINKING, UH,
WE SHOULD DEFINITELY DISCUSS
THE, UH, NEW AGENDA WITH
a focus on a significantly
NEW APPROACH TO...
SOMETHING.
SOMEONE JUST WALK BY?
YEAH. WHAT WERE YOU
CALLING ABOUT?
UH, TITUS STONE.
NO ARRESTS,
NO FAMILY IN STATE.
A COUSIN IN MINNEAPOLIS.
She's been informed.
He worked for a company
CALLED MODERN AERODYNAMICS.
ACCORDING TO THEIR WEB SITE,
THEY DESIGN
UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES.
You know what those are?DRONES?
HOW'D YOU KNOW?
PATRICK.
DR. MILLER.
[cell phone rings] SOPHIE.
[faint indistinct voice speaks]
[rings]
WHAT'S UP, CHO?
ARE YOU WORKING THIS CASE?
I'M ALWAYS WORKING THE CASE.
RIGSBY'S GOING
TO THE VICTIM'S HOUSE,
AND I'VE GOT TO TALK
TO SOME PEOPLE ABOUT DRONES.
MM. DRONES.
THAT'S NEW.
COUNT ME IN.All right.
BYE.
[sighs] HELLO.
I'M KRIS MAKKENA.
I'M ONE OF
THE COMPANY'S PRESIDENTS.
AGENT KIMBALL CHO,
CBI.
THIS IS PATRICK JANE.HELLO.
I'M SORRY. I'M JUST, UH...
IT WAS A VERY HARD MORNING.
UM... MY PARTNER IS
IN THE CONFERENCE ROOM,
IF YOU'LL COME THIS WAY.
[Patrick] SO YOU
MAKE DRONES HERE?
[Kris] UH, WE DESIGN THEM.
WE DON'T MANUFACTURE.
[Cho] WHAT DID TITUS STONE
DO FOR YOU?
TITUS HAD BEEN WITH US
SINCE WE STARTED THE COMPANY.
HE WAS OUR DESIGN CHIEF.
HE WAS A GENIUS.
HE WAS OUR GENIUS.
HE WAS--HE WAS BRILLIANT.
[sighs]MM, "GENIUS"
AND "BRILLIANT"--
USUALLY SYNONYMS
FOR "DIFFICULT."
UH, WELL,
HE WAS A TAD ECCENTRIC
AND SOCIALLY AWKWARD AT TIMES,
DIDN'T ALWAYS GET PEOPLE,
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY,
WE ALL ADORED HIM.
I DOUBT THAT.
ELLIOTT.
ELLIOTT WINSTON.
I RUN THE COMPANY WITH KRIS.
AGENT CHO, IS IT?
THAT'S RIGHT.OUR ATTORNEY SAYS
THAT YOU THINK
A U.A.V. KILLED TITUS.
IS THAT TRUE?U.A.V...
AN UNMANNED VEHICLE.
IT'S A DRONE.
AH.WE'RE LOOKING
INTO THAT.
THEN WHY ARE YOU HERE?
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
OUR PRODUCT ISN'T VERY POPULAR
IN CERTAIN QUARTERS
OUTSIDE THE COUNTRY.
OR INSIDE THE COUNTRY,
FOR THAT MATTER.
IF A U.A.V. WAS INVOLVED
IN THIS, IT'S CLEAR--
SOMEONE DECIDED TO USE
POOR TITUS AS A PROP
IN A PARTICULARLY GROTESQUE
PIECE OF POLITICAL THEATER,
WHICH IS SIMPLY--OH, ELLIOTT--
SIMPLY... TERRORISM.
THE F.B.I. SHOULD BE HERE,
NOT A... STATE AGENCY.
WE'RE IN CONTACT
WITH THE F.B.I.
IF WE FIND EVIDENCE
OF TERRORISM,
WE'LL TAKE
THE APPROPRIATE STEPS.
BUT RIGHT NOW IT'S A HOMICIDE.
NOW... WAS STONE HAVING PROBLEMS
WITH ANYONE ELSE HERE?
UH... NOTHING SERIOUS,
NOT THAT WE KNEW ABOUT.
WHAT WAS HE WORKING ON?
HE STARTED A NEW LINE
OF PRODUCT, UH,
BUT HE'D JUST COMPLETED WORK
ON A PROJECT
CALLED THE REDBIRD,
WHICH WE DELIVERED TO
THE MILITARY A FEW MONTHS BACK.
THE REDBIRD?MM-HMM.
WELL, THAT'S A COOL NAME.
IS THAT THE KIND OF DRONE
THAT SHOOTS MISSILES
AND BLOWS UP
TRUCKS AND HOUSES, STUFF?
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.I SEE.
REDBIRD. IS IT RED?
NO. BLACK.
WHAT IS THE POINT HERE?
THERE IS NONE, JUST THAT
MERE MENTION OF IT
MAKES BOTH OF YOU TENSE.
WHY IS THAT?
OUR WORK FOR THE PENTAGON
IS COVERED
BY STRICT
CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS,
SO TECHNICALLY,
ADMITTING THE REDBIRD EXISTS
IS A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW.
WE COULD ALL GO TO JAIL JUST
FOR HAVING THIS CONVERSATION.
WELL, THAT COULD EXPLAIN IT.
COULD.
SOME NUT OUT THERE WHO THINKS
WE'RE WAR CRIMINALS
HAS DRAWN A TARGET ON OUR BACK.
THAT'S WHO YOU SHOULD BE
LOOKING FOR.
MAYBE.
NOW WHERE DOES STONE WORK?
THIS IS NICHOLAS VASHUM.
HE WAS TITUS'
RESEARCH ASSISTANT.
ANYTHING ELSE, LET ME KNOW.
DUDE. JANE. CHO.
HEY.
WHAT'S WITH ALL THE BUGS?
OH, UM, WE'VE BEEN
WORKING ON U.A.V.s
THAT MIMIC INSECT FLIGHT,
AND TITUS SAID HAVING
IMAGES AROUND HELPED.
[Cho] WHY WOULD YOU WANT
TO MIMIC INSECT FLIGHT?
SO YOU CAN MAKE
THE DRONE REALLY SMALL,
LIKE THE SIZE OF A MOSQUITO.
IT COULD LAND ON YOUR SHIRT
AND YOU WOULDN'T EVEN NOTICE.
CREEPY.
I GUESS.
WE HEAR STONE CAN BE DIFFICULT.
YOU HAVE ISSUES WITH HIM?
NO. GOD, NO. NO, NO.
I GOT HIM, YOU KNOW?
LIKE, WHAT WAS
IN TITUS' HEAD
WAS WAY MORE REAL TO HIM
THAN WHAT WAS OUTSIDE OF IT.
LIKE... OTHER PEOPLE.
LIKE, HE STARTED THIS DIET
A FEW MONTHS BACK,
AND IF I BROUGHT IN FOOD--
LIKE, ANY FOOD--
HE WOULD THROW ME OUT
OF THE ROOM
AND SAY I WAS SABOTAGING HIM
AND... YOU KNOW.
[inhales] YOU KNOW.
WHAT DID STONE DO
IN HIS FREE TIME?
UH, HE PLAYED A LOT
OF VIDEOGAMES,
HE WATCHED A LOT OF MOVIES.
SAMURAI MOVIES, I'M THINKING.
YEAH, HE WAS REALLY INTO
THAT KUNG FU STUFF.
MORE KUROSAWA THAN KUNG FU.
WAS HE SEEING SOMEONE?
YOU MEAN, LIKE, A WOMAN?
UM... NO.
WHAT ABOUT HOOKERS?
WHAT--WHAT MAKES YOU THINK
HE DID THAT?
WELL, LONELY OVERWEIGHT GUY
GOES ON A DIET--
HE'S TRYING TO IMPRESS
SOMEONE.
YEAH, HE DIDN'T...
MENTION THAT TO ME.
WHAT DO YOU KNOW
ABOUT THE REDBIRD?
AND YOU CAN SPEAK FREELY,
'CAUSE CHO AND I
HAVE TOP LEVEL
SECURITY CLEARANCE.
MM... NOTHING.
I DIDN'T WORK MUCH
ON THE REDBIRD.
YOUR BOSS SAYS YOU GET THREATS
FROM PEOPLE
WHO DON'T LIKE DRONES.
THAT TRUE?
YEAH. THAT HAPPENS.
IT'S SCARY.
THERE'S SOME HARDCORE HATERS
OUT THERE.
I'LL BET.
I'LL BE OUTSIDE.
IF THAT'S STONE'S LAPTOP,
I'M GONNA NEED TO TAKE IT.
OOH, UH, I'LL HAVE TO ASK.
IT PROBABLY HAS SOME
CLASSIFIED MATERIAL ON THERE.
YOU GUYS REALLY HAVE
TOP SECURITY CLEARANCE?
NO.
Hi. You've reached
the voicemail
of Dr. Sophie Miller.
If this is a true
psychiatric emergency,
please call 9-1-1 and seek
immediate assistance.
Otherwise, leave a message,
and I'll get back to you
as quickly as I can.
GRACE, I WANT YOU TO STOP
WHAT YOU'RE DOING
AND LOOK UP
AN ADDRESS FOR ME.
WE RAN STONE'S CREDIT CARDS.
JANE WAS RIGHT.
HE WAS HIRING PROSTITUTES
THROUGH AN ESCORT SERVICE
CALLED PRIVATE COMPANION.
YOU GET ANY NAMES?
YEAH, A WOMAN NAMED
CAROL MATHEWS
WAS WITH STONE
THE NIGHT BEFORE HE DIED.
RIGSBY'S BRINGING HER IN.AND WHAT ABOUT THE LAPTOP?
ANY PROBLEMS
WITH SECURITY CLEARANCE?
NO, WE TOLD THE F.B.I. WE ONLY
WANTED TO LOOK AT HIS CALENDAR
AND CORRESPONDENCE.
THEY'RE COOL WITH IT.
VAN PELT'S ON IT.
WHEN ARE YOU GETTING OUT?
SOON, I HOPE.GOOD LUCK.
THANKS.MAN, THEY'RE LETTING ANYBODY
INTO THE HOSPITAL THESE DAYS.
RAY.HEY, TERESA.
SORRY ABOUT THIS.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE?
WELL, I HEARD THAT MY FAVORITE
CBI AGENT WAS LAID UP.
I THOUGHT I'D STOP BY.
OH. THANKS.
NICE SUIT.
PRIVATE SECTOR'S
TREATING YOU ALL RIGHT.
YEAH. I DO OKAY.
SO WHAT HAPPENED?
OH, NOTHING. I--
I SCRAPED MY KNEE.
[chuckles] THAT'S NOT
WHAT I HEAR.
I HEAR YOU WERE THIS CLOSE
TO RED JOHN.
THAT'S SOME SCARY STUFF.
YOU OKAY?
FINE. YEAH, IT TURNS OUT
RED JOHN ISN'T SO TOUGH.
YOU KNOW, HE BARELY
LAID A HAND ON ME.
GOOD FOR YOU.
[inhales]
WELL, TH-THANKS
FOR--FOR COMING BY.
BUT I'M FINE.
I'M... TOTALLY FINE.
[chuckles]
AM I MAKING YOU NERVOUS
SOMEHOW?
NO. [chuckles]YOU SURE?
'CAUSE YOU'RE ACTING LIKE
I'M MAKING YOU NERVOUS.
NO!
WH-WHY ARE YOU HERE?
YOU AND JANE FIGURE
YOU'RE PRETTY CLOSE
TO CATCHING RED JOHN,
RIGHT?
HAVE YOU GOT A BEAD ON HIM,
PARAMETERS?
CAN'T SAY. SORRY.
WHY DO YOU CARE?
I DON'T CARE.
I HAVE CLIENTS WHO CARE.
VISUALIZE CLIENTS.
WHY DO THEY CARE?
[breathes sharply
and chuckles]
YOU KNOW, I FIGURED THIS WAS
HOW THE CONVERSATION
WAS GONNA GO, BUT...
I CAME ANYWAY.
YOU KNOW WHY?
I LIKE YOU, TERESA.
I REALLY DO.
AND ONE OF THESE DAYS,
YOU AND ME--
WE'LL HAVE THE TIME.
TAKE CARE OF YOURSELF.
[whistling
"Jimmy Crack Corn"]
I'VE GOT TO GET OUT OF HERE.
MISS MATHEWS, I DON'T CARE
ABOUT THE PROSTITUTION CHARGES.
I'M JUST INTERESTED IN WHAT
HAPPENED WITH TITUS STONE.I GET IT.
YOU WORK AS AN ESCORT
FOR THE...
PRIVATE COMPANION AGENCY,
IS THAT RIGHT?[clicks pen]
STRICTLY SPEAKING,
I'M A... INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR.
THAT MEANS THE COMPANY OFFERS
THE SERVICE,
BUT THE TERMS ARE NEGOTIATED
BETWEEN THE CLIENT AND ME.
ALSO, THEY DON'T PAY
WITHHOLDING OR F.I.C.A. TAXES.
AND STONE WAS PAYING
FOR YOU TO SLEEP WITH HIM?
THAT IS WHAT WAS OCCURRING.
HOW LONG
HAD YOU KNOWN STONE?
LIKE, FOUR MONTHS?
HE'D CALL EVERY TWO,
THREE WEEKS.
AND HOW WOULD YOU
DESCRIBE HIM?
QUIET, NOT VERY GOOD
AT TALKING, REALLY.
NOT UNTIL HE GOT INTO
THE ROLE.
THE ROLE?
YEAH, HE'S INTO
ROLE-PLAYING.
OH. AND WHAT ROLE
DID YOU PLAY?
HE'S A SAMURAI WARRIOR,
AND I'M A VILLAGE GIRL
HE JUST SAVED FROM BANDITS.
HE HAD A ROBE AND SANDALS
AND A REAL SAMURAI SWORD.
IT'S CALLED A KATANA.
HE WOULD TALK ABOUT
THE HONORABLE WAY
OF THE WARRIOR,
AND THEN I WOULD BE GRATEFUL
FOR ABOUT A HALF HOUR.
[inhales, stops]
WHAT WAS IT? GO ON.
YOU KNOW, WHEN HE WAS
TALKING ABOUT HONOR
IN THAT CRAZY ROBE,
IT'S THE ONLY TIME
HE EVER REALLY SEEMED
COMFORTABLE WITH HIMSELF.
YOU SAW HIM THE NIGHT
BEFORE LAST, RIGHT?
MM-HMM.
DID HE TALK ABOUT ANY
ISSUES THAT HE HAD,
PROBLEMS WITH OTHER PEOPLE
IN HIS LIFE?
NO.
HE DID SEEM KIND OF SAD,
THOUGH.
HE PAID
FOR AN EXTRA HALF HOUR.
JUST, YOU KNOW, CUDDLING.
GRACE.BOSS.
THEY LET YOU GO?Y-YEAH. WHAT IS THAT?
A COMPUTER
FROM STONE'S OFFICE.
ANYTHING ON IT?NO, NOTHING.
NO FILES, NO APPLICATIONS.
EVEN THE OPERATING SYSTEM
IS GONE. IT'S BEEN WIPED.
WELL, HOW WOULD YOU DO THAT?RUN A PROGRAM.
BUT YOU HAVE TO RUN IT
FIVE OR SIX TIMES
TO A GET A DISK
THIS CLEAN.
SOMEBODY REALLY WANTED TO GET
RID OF SOMETHING ON THE DRIVE.
THERE ARE FRAGMENTS OF DATA
HERE AND THERE.
I'M TRYING TO PUT THEM
TOGETHER.
KEEP CHECKING,
AND, UM, GRACE...
[lowered voice] THE SURVEILLANCE
ON THE RED JOHN SUSPECTS--
I NEED YOU TO TAKE IT DOWN.[lowered voice] REALLY?
RIGHT AWAY, AS SOON AS YOU CAN.
DON'T LEAVE ANYTHING BEHIND.SURE. OKAY.
[normal voice]
HAVE YOU SEEN JANE?
[normal voice] NO.
HE CALLED A LITTLE WHILE AGO,
NEEDED AN ADDRESS.WHOSE ADDRESS?
UM...
[cell phone rings]
[sighs]
LISBON. YOU'RE WONDERING
WHO SOPHIE MILLER IS?
She was your psychiatrist.[doorbell rings]
That's right.
I know some things.
WHAT MADE YOU THINK OF HER?
OH, I DON'T KNOW.
DOCTORS, HOSPITALS.
YOU THINK RED JOHN LEARNED
ABOUT EILEEN TURNER FROM HER.
HE MUST HAVE.
I MUST HAVE TOLD HER A LOT
OF THINGS I DON'T REMEMBER.
I WAS ON
SOME SERIOUS MEDICATION.
WELL, CALL ME
AFTER YOU TALK TO HER.
SURE.RIGHT AFTER.
[doorbell rings]BYE.
[click]
[Sophie] THE PATIENT SHOWED
SOME TREATMENT RESPONSE
AT THE SESSION.
HILARY CONTINUES
TO EXHIBIT SIGNS
OF SEPARATION ANXIETY DISORDER.
[clicks button]
[recorder clatters in drawer]
HMM.
OH! OH!
[breathing heavily]
BOSS?
ARE YOU OKAY?
JANE FOUND A DEAD BODY.
IT WAS SOMEBODY HE KNOWS.
RED JOHN KILLED HER.
WHY?
WE THINK HE GOT INFORMATION
FROM HER.
JANE'S TALKING
TO THE LOCAL P.D.
[sighs]
UH, DID YOU GET SOMETHING
OFF STONE'S COMPUTER?
THIS IS THE OTHER THING.
I WAS SHUTTING DOWN
THE SURVEILLANCE LIKE YOU ASKED,
AND I NOTICED SOMETHING.
I WASN'T LOOKING FOR IT.
IT WAS JUST THERE.
IT'S REALLY WEIRD.
IT'S HAPPENING RIGHT NOW.
AND WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME
YOU TALKED TO HER?
UH, A-ABOUT FIVE YEARS AGO.
[cell phone rings]
EXCUSE ME.
LISBON,
I HAVE TO CALL YOU BACK.
[lowered voice] JANE, I THOUGHT
YOU SHOULD KNOW.
THREE OF THE RED JOHN SUSPECTS
ARE HERE TOGETHER RIGHT NOW.
WHO?BERTRAM, SHERIFF McALLISTER,
AND REEDE SMITH.
THEY'RE TALKING OUTSIDE
BERTRAM'S OFFICE.
[speaking inaudibly]
AND WE'LL NEED TO TRACK
THE ARRESTS.
[door opens]
HELLO.
UH, JANE, WHAT YOU DOING?
THIS IS A PRIVATE MEETING.
HOW WAS I TO KNOW?
DOOR WAS CLOSED.
AGENT SMITH.JANE.
SHERIFF McALLISTER.TOM.
TOM.
OKAY, I'LL CALL YOU
TOM THEN.
SO WHAT'S THE DEAL, PATRICK?
WELL, AS SOON AS YOU'RE DONE,
I NEED TO TALK WITH YOU.
WELL, WE MAY BE SOME TIME.
WE'RE DISCUSSING A JOINT
ANTI-NARCOTICS EFFORT
BY THE CBI, THE F.B.I,
AND NAPA COUNTY.
A LOT OF METH
IN MY NECK OF THE WOODS.
I'D LIKE TO SEE IT
CLEANED UP.
GOOD LUCK WITH THAT.
UH, CARRY ON DISCUSSING
YOUR EFFORT.
I'LL WAIT.
SO WHAT IS IT THAT YOU WOULD
LIKE TO TALK ABOUT, JANE?
YOU WANTED TO KNOW
WHENEVER WE MADE PROGRESS
ON THE RED JOHN CASE.
WE'VE MADE PROGRESS.
RED JOHN JUST KILLED THE DOCTOR
WHO TREATED ME
DURING MY NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
MAYBE... YOU AND I SHOULD
DISCUSS THIS ALONE.
WELL, WE'RE ALL LAW ENFORCEMENT
FAMILY HERE, RIGHT?
SOPHIE MILLER. GOOD WOMAN.
HE CHOPPED HER HEAD OFF,
PLACED IT IN HER KITCHEN OVEN.
A GAG, I SUPPOSE.
DEAR GOD.
SO HOW IS THAT PROGRESS?
RED JOHN KILLED SOPHIE MILLER
BECAUSE I'M CLOSING IN ON HIM.
HE'S KILLED TWO PEOPLE
WITHIN DAYS NOW.
HE'S GETTING DESPERATE
AND A LITTLE CRAZY,
AND HE DOESN'T REALIZE, BUT HE'S
MADE A TERRIBLE MISTAKE.
THAT'S PROGRESS, RIGHT?
WHAT MISTAKE DID HE MAKE?
I WOULD TELL YOU, BUT I'VE
ALWAYS GOTTEN THE FEELING
THAT THIS ROOM IS BUGGED.
WIRED.
GOOD SEEING YOU ALL.
[door closes]
[whistles]
NOW WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT
ALL ABOUT?
EXACTLY HOW MUCH
DOES JANE KNOW?
WELL, THAT IS
THE QUESTION, ISN'T IT?
YES, IT IS.
AND IT'S YOUR JOB TO KNOW
THE ANSWER.
I'M DOING MY BEST.
[pigeons cooing]
THANK YOU.
SO DID YOU SEE ANYTHING THAT
SAYS ONE OF THEM IS RED JOHN?
NO.
[cooing]I'M SORRY ABOUT SOPHIE.
I KNOW SHE HELPED YOU.
DO YOU WANT TO BE ALONE?
LOOK, I'M GONNA GO BACK
TO MY OFFICE.
YOU CAN COME--NO, NO, WAIT, WAIT.
I'M WAITING.
RED JOHN KILLED SOPHIE
BECAUSE SHE COULD IDENTIFY HIM.
NOW HE COULD HAVE STOLEN
MY RECORDS
WITHOUT EVER SEEING HER.
HE MUST HAVE WANTED TO
MEET HER, TO TALK TO HER.
WHY?WELL, I DON'T KNOW WHY.
MAYBE CURIOUS ABOUT SOMEONE
THAT WAS CLOSE TO ME.
BUT HE DID.
HE'S BEEN PLANNING THIS
FOR A WHILE.
PROBABLY WENT TO SEE HER
WEEKS AGO,
OR MAYBE EVEN MONTHS.
WHY NOT KILL HER THEN?
AND WHY KILL HER NOW?
HER DEATH WOULD HAVE
TIPPED ME OFF.
HE WAITED UNTIL HE KNEW THAT
I WOULD TRY TO TRACK HER DOWN.
HE HAD TO HAVE USED
SUBTERFUGE
TO GET IN TO SEE HER.
LIKE PRETEND TO BE
A PATIENT?PROBABLY.
THEN SHE'D HAVE A FILE
ON HIM.
WHAT GOOD WOULD IT BE?
IT'S NOT LIKE HE'S GONNA
TELL HER THE TRUTH.
NO, BUT SOPHIE HAD
A VERY GOOD EYE FOR PEOPLE.
HE MAY NOT HAVE BEEN ABLE
TO HIDE EVERYTHING FROM HER.
WE NEED TO GET THAT FILE.
[Lisbon, lowered voice]
THE LOCAL POLICE
WILL LET YOU
INTO MILLER'S HOUSE.
HER APPOINTMENT CALENDAR
SHOULD BE IN HER OFFICE.
YOU'RE LOOKING FOR
A FIRST-TIME MALE PATIENT
THAT'S BEEN TO SEE HER
ONCE OR TWICE
IN THE PAST SIX MONTHS.GOT IT.
DO NOT TELL ANYONE
WHAT YOU'RE DOING.
TURN OFF YOUR CELL PHONE
AND THE G.P.S. IN YOUR CAR.
YOU DON'T KNOW
WHO'S WATCHING.
OKAY. IF YOU SAY SO.
[normal voice] WHAT'S UP?
DID YOU FIND SOMETHING
ON STONE'S COMPUTER?
I'LL HAVE SOMETHING SOON.
CHO WANTED ME TO TELL YOU
THAT HE WENT TO TALK TO
A GUY NAMED AARON KALINOSKY.
WORKED FOR MODERN AERODYNAMICS
UNTIL A FEW MONTHS AGO.
WHAT'S THE CONNECTION THERE?
APPARENTLY HE'S GOT
A LAWSUIT AGAINST TITUS STONE.
AARON KALINOSKY?
UH, JUST A MOMENT, PLEASE.
GIVE IT A RUN.
[whirring]
AGENT CHO, YES?YES.
THAT ONE OF YOUR DESIGNS?
YEAH. IT'S, UH,
SELF-GUIDED.
IT'S SUPPOSED TO WEND ITS WAY
THROUGH THE FOREST
AND RETURN WITHOUT
SMASHING INTO A TREE.
WE'LL SEE IF IT PULLS IT OFF.
THIS ABOUT TITUS STONE?
YES.POOR BASTARD.
THE MAN WAS BRILLIANT.
HEAD AND SHOULDERS
ABOVE THE REST.
DID A SAMURAI KILL HIM?
[chuckles]
SORRY. BAD TASTE.
I UNDERSTAND YOU WERE SUING HIM
AND MODERN AERODYNAMICS.
OH, THAT.
I WORKED WITH TITUS, KRIS,
AND ELLIOTT
ON SEVERAL PROJECTS
WHILE I WAS THERE.
WE WERE ARGUING OVER WHO OWNS
ONE OF THE DESIGNS
THEY'RE STILL DEVELOPING,
HAPPENS ALL THE TIME.
NOTHING PERSONAL.DID TITUS STONE
FEEL THAT WAY?
YOU'RE GONNA HAVE
TO ASK HIM.
WERE YOU FRIENDS WITH HIM?[chuckles]
I DON'T KNOW
THAT HE HAD FRIENDS.
WE GOT ALONG.
DID YOU TALK TO HIM
RECENTLY?
UM...
WHY DON'T YOU WANT
TO TELL ME?
'CAUSE IT'S CONFIDENTIAL,
AND NATIONAL SECURITY,
AND BLAH, BLAH, BLAH.
HERE.
TRY NOT TO GET ME ARRESTED
FOR SAYING THIS, OKAY?
TITUS CALLED SIX WEEKS AGO.
THERE WAS TROUBLE
WITH THAT SYSTEM
THEY SOLD TO THE MILITARY.THE REDBIRD.
THERE WAS AN ACCIDENT
IN AFGHANISTAN.
ONE OF THE REDBIRDS
MISSED A TARGET
AND HIT A CIVILIAN HOME,
AND THERE WERE NINE OR TEN
DEATHS, BIG INVESTIGATION.
TITUS WAS WORRIED
THAT THERE WAS A PROBLEM
WITH THE GUIDANCE SYSTEM.
HE WANTED ME TO LOOK
AT THE SPECS WITH HIM.
THEN... HE CALLED BACK
A FEW DAYS LATER.
FALSE ALARM.
EVERYTHING WAS FINE.
UH... LOOK OUT.
[laughs]
[drone whirring]
SEE? NO HANDS.
NO ONE WILL SAY ANYTHING
OFFICIAL ABOUT THE REDBIRD.
I TALKED TO A GUY I SERVED WITH
WHO'S AT THE PENTAGON NOW.
HE SAID, OFF THE RECORD,
THERE WAS AN ACCIDENT
AND AN INVESTIGATION.
APPARENTLY IT CLEARED
MODERN AERODYNAMICS.
THEY THINK THE ACCIDENT WAS
CAUSED BY LOCAL WEATHER.
I GUESS THAT'S WHY STONE
CALLED KALINOSKY OFF.
WHAT ELSE DO WE HAVE?
THE TECHS FOUND FRAGMENTS
OF A DRONE LIKE THIS
IN THE WRECKAGE.
IT'S FOR SURVEILLANCE.
NO WEAPONS.
BUT YOU COULD ATTACH
A SMALL EXPLOSIVE TO IT.
IS THAT EASY TO DO?NAH.
HAD TO BE SOMEBODY
WHO KNEW WHAT THEY WERE DOING.
CO-WORKER?
WITH THE ADDED WEIGHT, THE DRONE
HAS A RANGE OF 4 OR 5 MILES.
I CHECKED
WITH THE OTHER EMPLOYEES.
NO ONE WAS CLOSE ENOUGH
THAT NIGHT TO LAUNCH IT.
YEAH, MIGHT ELLIOTT WINSTON
WAS RIGHT.
SOME ANTI-DRONE GUY DID IT.
OKAY, YOU KNOW WHAT?
LET'S START OVER.
WHAT DID STONE DO THAT NIGHT?
WELL, HE LEFT HIS HOUSE
ABOUT 6:30.
WENT SOMEWHERE.
WE DON'T KNOW WHERE.
SHOWED UP AT THE RESTAURANT
8:15. STAYED UNTIL 11:50.
A 3-HOUR DINNER BY HIMSELF?
THAT'S A MEAL.
DID YOU GET ANYTHING
FROM THE COMPUTER?
YEAH, BUT IT'S JUST A STREAM
OF NUMBERS.
I CAN'T MAKE SENSE OF IT.
WELL, FIND SOMEBODY
WHO CAN.
OTHERWISE, WE'RE BACK
TO THE DRONE PEOPLE.
DID WE GET THE AUTOPSY REPORT?
YOUWANT TO LOOK
AT THE AUTOPSY RESULTS?
COME ON.
DON'T BE SO SURPRISED.
DOES IT SAY WHAT STONE
HAD FOR DINNER?
[clicks tongue]
UM... "CONTENTS OF STOMACH."
FRIED CHICKEN,
CHEESEBURGER,
MASHED POTATOES, FRENCH FRIES,
MACARONI AND CHEESE,
APPLE PIE, AND ICE CREAM.
YUCK.
EXCELLENT.
LET'S BRING EVERYONE IN
TOMORROW, WRAP THIS ONE UP.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?FINISH.
UH, MOVE ON, CONCERN OURSELVES
WITH SOMETHING MORE IMPORTANT.
YOU KNOW WHO DID IT?SURE.
TAKE A LOOK FOR YOURSELVES.
IT'S RIGHT THERE.
WHERE?
THANK YOU FOR COMING.
THIS SHOULDN'T TAKE LONG.
WHAT IS ALL THIS? IS--
IS THAT AARON KALINOSKY?
AH, WE'LL...WHAT'S HE DOING HERE?
LET YOU KNOW IN A MINUTE.
PLEASE, SIT DOWN.
I'M SURE
YOU'RE NERVOUS,
CALLED TO SEE
THE COPPERS AND ALL,
SO, UH, LET ME REASSURE YOU,
WE KNOW NEITHER OF YOU
KILLED TITUS STONE.
I THINK I SPEAK FOR BOTH OF US
WHEN I SAY THAT'S TRUE.
MM-HMM.
DO YOU KNOW WHO DID IT?YES.
HE KILLED HIMSELF.HE WHAT?
HE WAS A SAMURAI, AND HE FELT
HE'D DISHONORED HIMSELF,
SO HE COMMITTED SEPPUKU,
RITUAL SUICIDE,
WITH HIS OWN PARTICULAR SWORD.
[beeping, whirring]
WELL, WHAT'S YOUR EVIDENCE?[Patrick] HIS DINNER.
CHEESEBURGER, FRIED CHICKEN,
MASHED POTATOES,
MAC AND CHEESE.
COMFORT FOOD.
A CONDEMNED MAN'S LAST MEAL.
WHY WOULD HE DO THAT?
H-HOW HAD HE DISHONORED HIMSELF?
MISS MAKKENA,
YOU WANNA TELL US?
ME? [chuckles] WHY?
BECAUSE HE TOLD YOU.
UH, NO.
SURE, HE DID.
HE CAME TO YOU TO CONFESS,
BECAUSE HE WAS IN LOVE
WITH YOU.
KRIS.
I BROUGHT YOU THIS.
I THOUGHT
I-I WON'T NEED IT ANYMORE.
CAN I COME IN?
UH, YE--SURE.
OKAY, TITUS DIDN'T LOVE ME.SURE, HE DID.
HE HAD A PHOTOGRAPH
OF YOU ON HIS DESK.
HE KEPT IT THERE.
HE ALSO HIRED A HOOKER THAT
LOOKED EXACTLY LIKE YOU.
IT WASN'T HARD TO SEE.
HE CAME BECAUSE HE KNEW THERE
WAS A PROBLEM WITH REDBIRD.
IT'S WHAT LED
TO THOSE DEATHS,
AND YOU THREE
COVERED IT UP.
YOU MADE INVESTIGATORS THINK
IT WAS SOMETHING ELSE,
BUT HE COULDN'T LIVE
WITH THAT.
PEOPLE DIED... OKAY.
BECAUSE WE SCREWED UP. THERE WERE MISTAKES.
WE ALL KNOW IT.
WE LIED! TO EVERYONE!
IT'S NOT...
IT ISN'T HONORABLE.
I DON'T EVEN KNOW
WHAT THAT MEANS.
LOOK, IT WAS A MOMENT.
OKAY? THAT'S IT.
THE POINT IS
TO COLLECT OURSELVES,
ACT WITH GRACE, AND MOVE ON,
BECAUSE IF WE DON'T,
TITUS, THIS COMPANY--
IT'S GONE.
ME, TOO. I AM DONE.
YOU WILL HAVE RUINED ME.
IS THAT WHAT YOU WANT
TO DO, TITUS?
NO.HE TOLD YOU
WHAT HE WAS GONNA DO,
AND YOU DIDN'T EVEN TRY
AND TALK HIM OUT OF IT.[sighs]
THE WAY I FEEL RIGHT NOW,
I CAN'T LIVE WITH MYSELF.
I THINK YOU SHOULD DO
WHATEVER BRINGS YOU PEACE.
WHO KNOWS?
IT COULD BE BEAUTIFUL.
[sighs]
[Lisbon] SO YOU WENT
TO THE OFFICE,
AND YOU FOUND THE SUICIDE NOTE
ON HIS COMPUTER
THAT HE TOLD YOU ABOUT,
AND YOU GOT RID OF IT.
KRIS...LOOK, SHUT UP, ELLIOTT.
IS THIS TRUE?LOOK, EVEN IF IT WERE TRUE--
I HAD NO IDEA ABOUT TITUS,
NONE.
EVEN IF IT WERE,
YOU CAN'T PROVE IT.I'M GONNA BE SICK.
LOOK, JUST SHUT UP, OKAY?
I-I-I HAVE--
I HAVE NOTHING TO ANSWER FOR.
YOU'RE RIGHT.
WE CAN'T PROVE ANYTHING.
NOT ABOUT THE SUICIDE.
BUT WE CAN PROVE THE COVER-UP.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?AGENT VAN PELT WAS ABLE
TO RECOVER DOCUMENTS
FROM STONE'S COMPUTER.
THEY'RE JUST NUMBERS TO US,
BUT ACCORDING
TO MR. KALINOSKY,
THEY PROVE THAT THERE WERE FLAWS
IN REDBIRD'S DESIGN.
HE'S OUT THERE RIGHT NOW
ABOUT TO GIVE HIS STATEMENT.
NO. MNH-MNH.
OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE,
FRAUD,
MAYBE EVEN MANSLAUGHTER.
I WIPED THAT DISK.THAT SOUNDS LIKE
A CONFESSION.
[Lisbon] IT DOES,
DOESN'T IT?I'M DONE.
WAIT, WAIT. ELLIOTT, HANG ON.
LOOK, EVERYTHING'S GONNA BE
ALL RIGHT IF WE JUST--
IF WE JUST HANG TOGETHER.HANG TOGETHER? HANG--
ARE YOU INSANE?
AFTER WHAT YOU DID
TO TITUS?
JUST DON'T FOCUS
ON THE NEGATIVE.
FOCUS ON THIS.
I'M CALLING MY LAWYER
AND CUTTING A DEAL.
YOU'RE ON YOUR OWN, KRIS.
GOOD LUCK.
I WIPED THE DISK.
YOU'RE RIGHT. YOU DID.
MR. KALINOSKY SAID THE DATA
WAS JUST RANDOM NUMBERS.
GIBBERISH.OOPS.
JANE, RIGSBY'S ON THE PHONE.
OH. OKAY. EXCUSE ME.
I'LL TAKE IT IN YOUR OFFICE.
MISS MAKKENA, I CAN'T
ARREST YOU TODAY,
BUT I WILL... SOON.
HOW MANY NAMES?FOUR.
ERNEST MATTHEWSON,
MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WASHBURN,
MIGUEL VAVARIO,
AND JAY ROTH.
ROTH. IT'S FROM THE GERMAN ROT.
MEANS "RED."
WHEN DID SHE SEE HIM?
UH...
ABOUT FIVE AND A HALF MONTHS
AGO.
DO YOU HAVE THE FILE?
NO. THERE IS NO FILE.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
Well, I searched the whole
office. It's not here.
I GOT THE DEPARTMENT SECRETARY
TO CHECK
THE ARCHIVED FILES
AT THE UNIVERSITY.
THERE'S NO FILE THERE, EITHER.
IT'S GONE.
HE TOOK IT.
I'M SORRY, JANE.
OH, IT'S ALL RIGHT, RIGSBY.
THANKS FOR EVERYTHING.
WE'LL SEE YOU
WHEN YOU GET BACK.[clicks keypad]
DAMN IT!NOW, NOW.
I THOUGHT WE HAD SOMETHING.
I REALLY DID.
WHY AREN'T YOU MORE UPSET?
WELL, I KIND OF
HALF-EXPECTED IT.
AND I KNOW SOMETHING
THAT RED JOHN DOESN'T.
SOPHIE DICTATED HER NOTES.
SHE COULDN'T TYPE.
NEVER LEARNED.
SHE WAS KIND OF
PROUD OF THE FACT.
SHE HAD A SERVICE THAT
TRANSCRIBED EVERYTHING FOR HER.
DID THEY KEEP A COPY?
VERY POSSIBLY.
[Sophie] PRELIMINARY DIAGNOSTIC
SESSION WITH JAY ROTH.
MR. ROTH CAME IN COMPLAINING
OF A RECENT ISSUE
WITH SEVERE ACROPHOBIA.FEAR OF HEIGHTS.
I KNOW. HE'S MIDDLE-AGED,
IN GOOD HEALTH,
WITH NO STATED PRIOR HISTORY
OF PSYCHIATRIC ISSUES.
HE HAS NO LIVING FAMILY,
BUT MANY FRIENDS
ON WHOM HE RELIES FOR COMPANY
AND EMOTIONAL SUPPORT.
HE'S WELL-SPOKEN,
GOOD POSTURE, SELF-POSSESSED.
IN THE WAITING ROOM,
HE SAT CALMLY IN ONE PLACE,
NEEDING NO DISTRACTION.[whistling]
THOUGH I NOTE,
HE IS AN EXCELLENT WHISTLER.
HIS SELF-PRESENTATION
IS PLEASANT,
BUT THERE ARE HINTS
IN HIS BEHAVIOR
OF A DAMAGED
AND NARCISSISTIC PERSONALITY.
[speaking inaudibly]
HE SAYS HE DEALS WITH
CONFLICT AND ADVERSITY
EASILY, THOUGH.
I'M NOT CONVINCED HE'S BEING
TRUTHFUL ABOUT THIS.
IN FACT, MUCH OF WHAT HE SAID,
THOUGH SPOKEN CONVINCINGLY,
DID NOT MATCH
WHAT I CAN ONLY CALL
MY INSTINCTIVE RESPONSE
TO HIS PRESENCE,
THOUGH I CANNOT POINT
TO IDENTIFIABLE
CLINICAL BEHAVIORS
THAT INDICATE THIS.
I SENSE SOMETHING DECEPTIVE
AND DARK
IN HIS EMOTIONAL MAKEUP.
HOWEVER, THERE IS
EVERY INDICATION
THAT HIS PHOBIA ISSUES
ARE REAL--
WHETHER ACROPHOBIA
OR SOME OTHER ISSUE
REMAINS TO BE SEEN.
AN INTERESTING CASE.
I LOOK FORWARD
TO FURTHER SESSIONS WITH HIM.
[recorder beeps]